Enthropic has truly changed the
trajectory of Claude Code, making it the
best and most ideal AI coding agent that
lives directly within your terminal.
With incredible new updates, it has been
completely redefined from Claude Code
system prompts being updated that
improves memory writing rules and
enforces better structure to a more
refined agent skills creator. You also
have a new loop and by the way command,
code review capabilities, schedule
tasks, and so much more. So, let's just
dive straight into it. To start off,
let's take a look at the new by the way
command. This is a command that lets you
ask a quick question about your current
work without adding it to the
conversation history. It's extremely
useful when you want a fast answer, but
don't want to clutter the main context
or derail Claude from a long running
task. This is essentially going to keep
the main job running in the background
while enabling multitasking with your
Claude Code instance. This week, we also
saw the introduction of the new /loop
command. This is incredibly underrated
as a feature cuz it allows anyone to
prompt on schedule. Basically meaning
that you can use the sloop together with
a cron style scheduling system, run
prompts repeatedly based off of these
different intervals. You can pull for
status updates or even set up a one-time
reminder directly inside a cloud code
instance. You just need to simply use
the /loop command and then add in the
interval that you want to work on
scheduling this task as well as your
prompt. For example, with the loop
command, you can essentially have Claude
Code schedule to automatically generate
summaries of recently merged PRs. Think
of this like a local schedule task
feature in Claude Code Desktop, but with
a sloop. It is something that acts more
like a temporary session level cron
while the local schedule desktop task
functions as a persistent local agent
scheduler. If you want the best AI
tools, workflows, and drops before
everyone else, join my free newsletter
with the link in the description below,
which is completely free. This leads us
to the new cloud desktop schedule task
feature. This is something that recently
released and it has even gotten further
refined in the latest change log. This
feature lets you create scheduled tasks
for whatever you want to run
automatically. As long as your computer
is awake and the desktop app is open,
pod can start a new local session at a
time and frequency you choose. This
means it's perfect for reoccurring
workflows like daily code reviews,
dependency updates. You also have it so
that you can have it even provide a
morning briefing that pulls information
from your calendar or even inbox. Since
these tasks run locally on your machine,
they rely on your desktop environment
being active. For example, you can
connect Claude code schedule tasks with
Telegram to automatically send updates.
First, you can ask Claude to add a
Telegram messaging module to your repo
using Telegram bot builder skill. You
can install it using the skill in the
description below. Then, you can create
a bot using something like Bolt Father
on Telegram. And then you can add the
bot credentials to your ENV file. And
whenever you create a scheduled task now
within Claude code, simply end the
prompt by instructing Claude to send a
message into Telegram using that module,
Claude will automatically now deliver
the task output to Telegram every time
it runs, which is incredible. Next is a
pretty important update that comes with
the latest release, which introduces a
system prompt improvement focused on
memory handling and agent behaviors.
This is where one major change is made
on how automemory is actually written.
Claud is now instructed that the
automemory directory is already
something that exists. So it must write
it to directly using the right tool.
This means that it should not run mkdir
or check if the directory actually
exists which reduces the unnecessary
tool calls and prevents accidental path
setup steps. The second big update of
this improvement of the system prompt is
how it improves how claude stores
feedback and project memories. Memory
writing rules now enforced a structured
format. So each memory should begin with
the rule or the fact followed by why the
reason or motivation behind the rule is
needed and how to actually apply it when
or how this rule should influence
Claude's behavior. This structured
template makes stored memories far more
useful and it overall helps Claude
recall context more accurately and
handle edge cases better in future
sessions. Overall, I see this as a huge
win. It is not something that a lot of
people are talking about, but it is
going to improve cloud code subtly,
making your context retention better
over sessions. Cloud code had released
voice mode, which is where you can
prompt any sort of generation with your
voice. You simply just use the /v voice
command to toggle it on and you can
speak to your cloud code agent. It has
now been essentially accessible for
anyone to access as they have rolled out
to every user of cloud code. This is a
feature more related to co-work as well
as the desktop app of claude which is
where they have now made claude for
excel and powerpoint now sync
seamlessly. When you have multiple files
open, Claude shares a full context of
your conversation between them, which is
a gamecher, and I believe this is a
counter to Google's workspace tool. This
means you can now pull data from
spreadsheets, build tables, and update a
deck without reexplaining any step.
Skills are now available inside both
add-ins. If your team has a standard
workflow, like a running a variance
analysis or building a client deck, you
can save it as a skill. others in your
organization can run it with a single
click from your sidebar. And that leads
me to agent skills creator within cloud
code, which has been revamped to let
authors test, measure, and refine skills
without coding. You can essentially now
write evolves benchmark performances, as
well as catching regression and ensuring
your skills trigger correctly. For
example, take a look at this PDF skill
previously struggling with a
non-fillable form where Claude had to
explore and place text at exact
coordinates without guidance using evol
which is a new feature a part of the
agent skills. It is where it was able to
isolate the failure and implement a fix
that anchors text positioning to extract
text coordinates and this overall
ensured consistent output across tricky
PDF layouts which is where it was able
to successfully fill out all the fields
of this form. Multi- aent support is now
going to be allowed with agent skills
allowing you parallel testing
description analysis. It also improves
skill reliability, making building and
maintaining skills faster and more
consistent, as well as aligned with
evolving models. In short, this is going
to make your skills a lot smarter within
Cloud Code. Next is an update making
Claude code smarter at using the Cloud
API. Now you can just simply ask cloud
code about the cloud API features like
prompt caching, adapted thinking and
efforts tools and more because it can
now guide you on how you can integrate
them within your workflow. This update
basically turns cloud code into a live
API mentor. So instead of digging
through docs, you can get actionable
advice on using advanced API
capabilities directly from your terminal
or project session. It's a huge
timesaver for anyone building with
Claude at a deeper level. Next is the
effort levels now being shown when you
start a session within Claude Code.
Every session, Claude Code is now going
to ask what effort level you want to
use, low, medium, or high. Or you can
even use the max setting. This setting
controls how deeply Claude reasons, how
long it works, and how much it costs.
Being clear on your effort level is
going to ensure predictable results and
efficient use of your tokens. You can
even use the ultra mode, which is
something that we had talked about
recently. Recently, Claude Code had
introduced code review. This is for deep
multi- aent code review systems that
catches bugs even human reviewers often
missed. It is kind of expensive though.
It's approximately $15 to $25 per run
and it is something that's only
available currently for team and
enterprise users. This is the same
system that Enthropic actually runs on
nearly every PR. While it doesn't
approve PRs, it actually helps close the
review gap. And overall, it's going to
let developers move faster and focus on
higher level work. Another feature,
particularly not related with Claude
Code itself, but through the Cloud Code
desktop app, is the ability to now see
and build interactive charts and
diagrams directly in the chat. This is a
feature now available in beta on all
plans, including the free one, where it
lets you visualize data and ideas
without leaving your conversation. And I
believe this is a pretty great feature,
especially if it's going to be
implemented with describing and flowing
out different trees of your directory.
For example, someone had requested
Claude to build an interactive
instrument panel from a Cessna 172
directly in the chat, which is pretty
cool. It's not perfect yet, but overall,
it has a lot of potential for education,
hands-on learning, as well as
visualizing even your code snippets. And
honestly, there's a lot more through the
change log which I recommend that you
read through. But overall, you can see
that Claude Code has been improving
drastically and it's becoming the ideal
AI coding agent for everyone. I'll leave
all these links that I use in today's
video in the description below. But with
that thought, guys, thank you guys so
much for watching. Subscribe to the
newsletter, the second channel, join the
Discord, follow me on Twitter. Lastly,
make sure you get subscribed, turn on
notification bell, like this video, and
please take a look at our previous
videos so that you can stay up to date
with the latest AI news. But with that
thought, guys, have an amazing day.
Spread positivity and I'll see you guys
fairly shortly.